# Break free

*\[group dance competition\]*

Break free or die tryin'! an inter-college dance competition, break free
is for those groups that aren't afraid to flaunt their mad dancing
skills! from kathakali to contemporary, this event witness various
styles of dances on a single platform. with the focus on choreography,
coordination, creativity and formation, break free will surely be a test
to your skills like no other. ready, set, break-free!

**team size:** 5-18 active members + 2 off-stage members

**time limit:** 4-10 min + 1 min stage setup time

**judging criteria:** choreography, synchronization, energy level, stage
utilization, overall impact

**general rules:**

-   teams must submit the audio tracks (in .mp3 format) prior to the
    event in a pen drive or hard disk.

-   teams must strictly follow the time limit. otherwise, teams will be
    penalised for not doing so.

-   accessories, costumes, props have to be arranged by the teams
    themselves.

-   obscenity of any kind or foul language will not be tolerated and can
    lead to immediate disqualification (at the discretion of judges).

    **terms and conditions:**

<!-- -->

-   all participants must have a valid college id card.

-   only present college students are allowed to participate. one person
    can be member of only one team.

-   any kind of fluid, live animals, flame, glass is not allowed on
    stage

-   the decision of the judges will be final and binding in case of any
    discrepancy.

-   participants are requested to act with proper sportsmanship. nit
    delhi hold right of disqualifying any team in case if the team has
    not compiled with the rules properly or acted in unruly or
    disruptive manners.

-   teams have to perform in their allotted slot only.

# Spotlight

*\[solo dance competition\]*

"dancing with one's feet is one thing but dancing from the heart is
another." if the blowing wind tempts your body to move, if the drizzling
rain makes you dance your heart out; then spotlight is the right place
for you to unveil your dancing skills. be it classical, hip hop,
lyrical, contemporary, locking or bollywood, through spotlight, the
biggest solo dance extravaganza in sentience'19, the stage is set for
all enthusiastic dancers who have the art deeply rooted in their veins.
get ready for the spotlight to be on you, and only you.

**time limit:** 3-4 min

**judging criteria:** choreography, expressions, innovation, energy
level, overall impact

**general rules:**

-   participants must submit the audio tracks (in .mp3 format) prior to
    the event in a pen drive or hard disk.

-   participants must strictly follow the time limit. otherwise, teams
    will be penalised for not doing so.

-   accessories, costumes, props have to be arranged by the participants
    themselves.

-   obscenity of any kind or foul language will not be tolerated and can
    lead to immediate disqualification (at the discretion of judges).

    **terms and conditions:**

<!-- -->

-   all participants must have a valid college id card.

-   any kind of fluid, live animals, flame, glass is not allowed on
    stage

-   the decision of the judges will be final and binding in case of any
    discrepancy.

-   participants are requested to act with proper sportsmanship. nit
    delhi hold right of disqualifying any team in case if the team has
    not compiled with the rules properly or acted in unruly or
    disruptive manners.

-   participants have to perform in their allotted slot only.

[dramatics events]{.underline}

# Goonj

> *\[street play competition\]*
>
simplicity is the best way to bring out your thoughts. but in this progressive era, nobody pays attention to the plain and simple. so, gear up and let your creativity boost your performance to grab the attention you so deserve. if you think that you have that mesmerizing ability to make the audience stay and watch your performance, then come and vent out those hidden emotions with simple costumes and props, with little or no amplification of sounds, and with actors relying only on their natural vocal and physical abilities. goonj is the place to be!

**team size:** 8-18 performing members + 2 non-performing members

**time limit:** 15-20 min (empty stage to empty stage)

**judging criteria:** content, theme and message, performance (acting,
dialogues, expression, movement), screenplay, crowd interaction and
overall impact

**eliminations: **

-   teams have to submit a video of part of the play they will perform
    in the finals.

-   the video must not be more than 10 min long.

> **finals:**

-   qualified teams will perform in the finals which will be during the
    festival.

-   teams have to perform the extended version of the play they
    submitted earlier.

> **general rules:**

-   teams must strictly follow the time limit. otherwise, teams will be
    penalised for not doing so.

-   the stated team size also includes the music accompanists.

-   accessories, costumes, props have to be arranged by the teams
    themselves.

-   use of electrical appliances (e.g. amplifiers) and any recorded
    music using mobile phones or tapes is prohibited.

-   obscenity of any kind or foul language will not be tolerated and can
    lead to immediate disqualification (at the discretion of judges).

> **terms and conditions:**

-   all participants must have a valid college id card.

-   any kind of fluid, live animals, flame, glass is not allowed on
    stage.

-   only present college students are allowed to participate. one person
    can be member of only one team.

-   the decision of the judges will be final and binding in case of any
    discrepancy.

-   participants are requested to act with proper sportsmanship. nit
    delhi hold right of disqualifying any team in case if the team has
    not compiled with the rules properly or acted in unruly or
    disruptive manners.

-   teams have to perform in their allotted slot only.**\
    **

# Abhinaya

*\[solo acting competition\]*
 acting is about finding yourself in the character you are portraying, overlooking the dissimilarities. an actor has the charismatic ability to bridge the seemingly unbridgeable void between the reel and real life. if you have a flair for acting, then monoact is an appropriate place for the actor hailing inside of you. if you have the capability to invoke emotions in audience single-handedly, then grab this opportunity to showcase your talent. let your imagination run astray and let your acting skill amaze us!! sentience'19 brings to you the event, monoact, for all the acting enthusiasts out there who want to leave a mark through their breath-taking acting skills.

**time limit:** 4-5 min (empty stage to empty stage)

**judging criteria:** acting, dialogues and expression, theme and
message, screenplay, overall impact

**general rules: **

-   participants must strictly follow the time limit. otherwise, teams
    will be penalised for not doing so.

-   accessories, costumes, props have to be arranged by the teams
    themselves.

<!-- -->

-   the act can be in english, hindi or both. however, short passages in
    other languages are allowed. mime is also allowed.

-   pre-recorded sounds can be played during the performance about which
    the participants have to inform the organisers prior to the event.
    the sound (in .mp3 format) must be brought in a pen drive or hard
    disk.

-   participants can bring someone who can be appointed to watch over
    sounds (if required any).

-   any request for heavy object (e.g. table, chairs) must be done prior
    to the events.

-   obscenity of any kind or foul language will not be tolerated and can
    lead to immediate disqualification (at the discretion of judges).

> **terms and conditions:**

-   all participants must have a valid college id card.

-   any kind of fluid, live animals, flame, glass is not allowed on
    stage

-   the decision of the judges will be final and binding in case of any
    discrepancy.

-   participants are requested to act with proper sportsmanship. nit
    delhi hold right of disqualifying any team in case if the team has
    not compiled with the rules properly or acted in unruly or
    disruptive manners.

-   participants have to perform in their allotted slot only.**\
    **

# The quipster

*\[stand-up comedy competition\]*

"life doesn\'t make any sense, and we all pretend it does. comedy\'s job
is to point out that it doesn\'t make sense, and that it doesn\'t make
much difference anyway." stand-up comedy, whether prepared or
improvised, is a difficult yet rewarding art form. all ya gotta do is
make people laugh! easier said than done. if you have what it takes to
make people laugh in the blink of an eye, then that's what we are
waiting for. stand up, make people laugh and be the celebrity. if you
think you can you have delightful tongue-in-cheek humour, then this here
is your opportunity to showcase your hilarious talent!

**time limit:** 5-10 min

**judging criteria:** content, comic timing, audience engagement,
quality of humour, overall performance

**general rules:**

-   this is a solo event.

-   participants are expected to come prepared with their original
    content.

-   participants must strictly follow the time limit. otherwise, teams
    will be penalised for not doing so.

-   only english and hindi are allowed. no other language is allowed.

-   any form of music is not allowed on stage.

-   reading of scripts or any kind of props are not allowed.

-   obscenity of any kind or foul language will not be tolerated and can
    lead to immediate disqualification (at the discretion of judges).

    **terms and conditions:**

-   all participants must have a valid college id card.

-   the decision of the judges will be final and binding in case of any
    discrepancy.

-   participants are requested to act with proper sportsmanship. nit
    delhi hold right of disqualifying any team in case if the team has
    not compiled with the rules properly or acted in unruly or
    disruptive manners.

-   participants have to perform in their allotted slot only.

[\
]{.underline}

[music events]{.underline}

**battle of bands**

*\[rock band competition\]*

you think you have what it takes to rock? to electrify the crowd with
your music? battle of bands, as the name suggests, is a battle of music
between bands. This event focuses on a band's understanding of music and
the ability to connect with their audience. So, come on already; just
pack your guitar and get ready to get on the stairway for some good old
rock 'n roll!

**Team Size:** 3-8

**Time limit:** 15-20 min

**Judging criteria:** Vocals quality, Instrumental music,
Synchronization, Overall impact

**General rules:**

-   At least 1 vocalist and 2 different instruments required (different
    guitars counted individually); one percussion instrument is
    mandatory.

-   The songs should have Hindi/English lyrics, however a refrain on a
    foreign language is allowed.

-   Participants must strictly follow the time limit. Otherwise, teams
    will be penalised for not doing so.

-   Bands have to report at the pre-allocated venue in the morning for
    the sound check.

-   Drum kit and sound system will be provided by the organizers.

-   Obscenity of any kind or foul language will not be tolerated and can
    lead to immediate disqualification (at the discretion of judges).

> **Terms and conditions:**

-   Sentience will not be held responsible for the failure of any
    instrument.

-   Only present college students are allowed to participate. One person
    can be member of only one team.

-   All participants must have a valid college ID card.

-   The decision of the judges will be final and binding in case of any
    discrepancy.

-   Participants are requested to act with proper sportsmanship. NIT
    Delhi hold right of disqualifying any team in case if the team has
    not compiled with the rules properly or acted in unruly or
    disruptive manners.

-   Teams have to perform in their allotted slot only.

**\
**

# Aaroh

*\[Solo + Duet Singing Competition\]*

Singers are not people who sing, rather, they are entrepreneurs of their
own style, variation, and genre. Music creates its own ambience and
singers augment soul, drama, emotion, mystery and fantasy. Do you have
the knack to improvise the songs you have listened to a zillionth time
and the skill to kill it with music? So, the timer is set, listen to
your calling, this Sentience'19 welcomes aspiring music supernovae to
sing their hearts out, in its very own Aaroh; the solo/duet singing
competition.

**Team size:** 1-2

**Time limit:** 4-5 min

**Judging criteria:** Vocals quality, Mood and Expression, Sense of
beat, Overall impact

**General Rules:**

-   Participants can perform with one instrumental accompaniment or with
    a backing track but the judging will be done solely on the basis of
    vocal performance.

-   Participants must submit the backing tracks if any (in .mp3 format)
    prior to the event in a pen drive or hard disk.

-   The songs should have Hindi/English lyrics, however a refrain on a
    foreign language is allowed.

-   Participants must strictly follow the time limit. Otherwise, teams
    will be penalised for not doing so.

-   Obscenity of any kind or foul language will not be tolerated and can
    lead to immediate disqualification (at the discretion of judges).

> **Terms and Conditions:**

-   All participants must have a valid college ID card.

-   The decision of the judges will be final and binding in case of any
    discrepancy.

-   Participants are requested to act with proper sportsmanship. NIT
    Delhi hold right of disqualifying any team in case if the team has
    not compiled with the rules properly or acted in unruly or
    disruptive manners.

-   Participants have to perform in their allotted slot only.

**\
**

# Acapella 

*\[Acapella competition\]*

"I regard myself as a beautiful musical instrument, and my role is to
contribute that instrument to scripts worthy of it." The human voice is
the first and most natural musical instrument, also the most emotional.
May it be the keyboard or the guitar, beat boxing or Konnakol, violin or
harmonium, this event lets you be the singer and the instrument. Get
your team ready and impress us with your stellar vocal percussion.

**Team Size:** 5-15

**Time limit:** 6-8 min\
**Judging Criteria:** Vocals quality, Rhythm, Harmonies,
Synchronization, Overall presence

**General Rules:**

-   Teams must have at least one vocalist.

-   No instruments or recorded music is allowed on stage.

-   The songs should have Hindi/English lyrics, however a refrain on a
    foreign language is allowed.

-   Participants must strictly follow the time limit. Otherwise, teams
    will be penalised for not doing so.

-   Obscenity of any kind or foul language will not be tolerated and can
    lead to immediate disqualification (at the discretion of judges).

> **Terms and Conditions:**

-   All participants must have a valid college ID card.

-   The decision of the judges will be final and binding in case of any
    discrepancy.

-   Participants are requested to act with proper sportsmanship. NIT
    Delhi hold right of disqualifying any team in case if the team has
    not compiled with the rules properly or acted in unruly or
    disruptive manners.

-   Participants have to perform in their allotted slot only.

[\
]{.underline}

[Fashion Events]{.underline}

# Runway

*\[Theme walk Competition\]*

"Fashion is art and you, the canvas." From hair to makeup to dressing to
confidence; everything matters once you're up on that stage. This event
is for all the lovely ladies and gentlemen who know how to step up their
looks and style! Participants will be given a theme and they will have
to dress up according to it. So, are you up for the challenge? This
individual event is for all fashion lovers; come on up and show us your
Jalwa!

**Team Size:** up to 20 (including backstage crew and sound attendant)

**Time limit:** 6-10 min\
**Judging Criteria:** - Designing, Ramp walk, Attitude, Choreography and
Coordination, Relevance to theme, Overall appearance

**General Rules:**

-   Every team must have to choose a theme and have to present their
    creations around the chosen theme.

-   The theme has to be informed to the organizers prior to the event.

-   Teams must submit the audio tracks (in .mp3 format) prior to the
    event in a pen drive or hard disk.

-   Team members should make their own arrangements for makeup,
    Accessories, costumes, Props etc.

-   Teams must strictly follow the time limit. Otherwise, teams will be
    penalised for not doing so.

-   Obscenity of any kind or foul language will not be tolerated and can
    lead to immediate disqualification (at the discretion of judges).

> **Terms and conditions:**

-   Sentience will not be held responsible for the damage of any
    creations or props during the event.

-   All participants must have a valid college ID card.

-   Only present college students are allowed to participate. One person
    can be member of only one team.

-   Any kind of fluid, live animals, flame, glass is not allowed on
    stage

-   The decision of the judges will be final and binding in case of any
    discrepancy.

-   Participants are requested to act with proper sportsmanship. NIT
    Delhi hold right of disqualifying any team in case if the team has
    not compiled with the rules properly or acted in unruly or
    disruptive manners.

-   Teams have to perform in their allotted slot only.

[Art Events]{.underline}

# COLOR SPLASH

*\[Spray painting\]*

"For me, graffiti means making marks on surfaces using just about
anything, be it markers, spray, paint, chalk, lipstick, varnish, ink. Or
it can be the result of scratches and incisions. The aim is to maintain
the energy created by disturbance or excitement in the street." Spray
Painting is a magical artwork by your beautiful hands. But would the
same magical aura be created if a right-handed person is asked to paint
with their left hand and vice versa? Will your less dominating hand be
able to make you dominate the entire event and let you win? Participants
will be provided all the items required for the event. Come in and set a
new bench mark in the art of a spray painting.

**Team Size:** solo event

**Time limit:** 45 min

**General Rules:**

-   Participants must make mural/painting using spray paints on given
    theme.

**FUSION ART**

*\[Tattoo vs Mehndi competition\] *

Mehndi is a form of body art since the ancient times in India. While on
the other hand, tattoos are also a form of body art which was initially
popular in the west. The face-off between the two would definitely be a
visual treat to your eyes. This competition invites all the artistic
individuals from all around to come in the limelight by winning this
face-off. Get ready for the battle.

**Team size:** 2 (1 artist + 1 canvas)

**Time limit:** 30 min

**General Rules:**

-   Participants must apply in teams of 2.

-   Participants must have accompanying acquaintances to draw the
    tattoo/mehndi on.

**\
**[Literature Events]{.underline}

# ODEssey

*\[Poetry Slam competition\]*

\"I did not have a big fist to punch them, so I picked up a pen and
wrote my punches instead.\"

Poetry has always been one of the loudest gateways for expression of
notions, feelings, thoughts and much more, the list of which is
boundless. If you believe that you have got what it takes, if you have
been swallowing words that wanted to come out, if you have always wanted
to give a punch to that subject, we have built this platform for you
alone. Sentience '19 provides you this platform where individuals recite
and enact their own piece of work, the poem. Come here and take your
chance to give that one big punch that you have always wanted to give.

Poetry slam is currently the best trend going on in the literature
world. Speaking is as good an art as is writing and Poetry Slam is just
the perfect mix of both of these arts.

**Time limit:** up to 5min

**Judging Criteria:** Binding the audience, Reaction of audience,
Literature of poem, Art of speaking, Time taken

**General rules:**

-   The participant has to be a registered student of an educational
    institute in India. The participant will be asked to provide a valid
    institute ID to participate.

-   The participants are free to write their poem on any theme/topic of
    their choice.

-   Each and every participant has to submit write-ups of their poems 2
    days prior to the event via email on odesseypoetryslam\@gmail.com in
    .docx format. Participants who will fail to provide the poems 2 days
    prior to the event via mail will have their marks deducted.

-   Once the poem is submitted, the participant is not allowed to edit
    the poem otherwise the participant's scoring will be affected.

-   Judging will be done on various points including but not limited to:

-   All the participants have to be present at the venue of the event
    before half hour of the commencing of the event to verify their
    poems and participation.

-   The poets are allowed to put Hindi and/or Urdu along with English in
    their poems or present their poems strictly in Hindi or Urdu or
    English.

> **Terms and Conditions:**

-   Only 1 entry per participant is allowed.

-   Judge's (Judges') decision will be final and absolute. They also
    have the right to alter any of the rules at any moment.

-   Use of props, music etc. is not allowed.

-   No abusive words or vulgar elements are allowed in the poem or the
    enactment.

**WordWar: Pursuit of Dispute**

*\[conventional Debate competition\]*

Ever felt confident that your oration skills are so refined that you can
convince the listeners that your side of argument is desirable? Could
you fight the battle of words and come up victorious like the Knight in
the shining armour? Then, WordWar is the apt platform for you.

**Team Size:** 2

**Time limit:** 2min per speaker

**General Rules:**

-   Topics for the first round will be given 24 hours prior to the
    commencement of the event to the registered e-mail id or phone
    number.

-   The motion for the debate, which would be one among the set of
    motions provided earlier, would be drawn 45 minutes prior to the
    commencement. Each of the team would be divided into \'for\' and
    \'against\' soon after drawing the motion. One member of the team
    goes to 'for' and the other to 'against'. Electronic devices are
    strictly prohibited in this round.

-   Only English is allowed. Each speaker would be given 3 minutes to
    present their argument. The speaker will be notified 30 seconds
    before the end of three minutes.

-   This would be followed by a rebuttal from the opponent\'s side. The
    moderator chooses the member who would question. The question should
    be short and precise. One minute will be provided for the speaker to
    answer.

-   Arguments \'for\' and \'against\' the motion will be presented
    alternatively.

-   The top 5 teams will get shortlisted to enter in the second round
    wherein the same pattern will be followed with new motion which
    would be provided one hour prior to the second round. Electronic
    devices would be allowed for preparation in this round.

-   Not following the above mentioned rules will lead to deduction of
    marks.

-   The registered participants will receive the detailed rule book on
    their registered Email ID.

-   In the case of a tie, a tie breaker round would take place wherein
    one member of each of the teams (of your choice) would be called
    forward for an extempore debate.

> **Terms and conditions:**

-   Dress code are Formals (Indian/Western).

-   Moderator\'s decision will be considered final.

-   No abusive language or personal comments would be entertained.

-   NIT Delhi hold right of disqualifying any team in case if the team
    has not compiled with the rules properly or acted in unruly or
    disruptive manners.

[Coding Events]{.underline}

# Capture the Flag

CTF is an event which provides a platform for participants to work out
on real world scenarios like malware analysis ¸pretesting, system
administration. The game is played in team of four players where each
team is provided with a real world scenario along with a system where
they need to seek out a solution which promotes next level. Each level
is associated with different kind of scenario of increasing difficulty.
This allows the participants to apply various concepts and techniques to
reach a solution. The game is entirely based on Command line interface.
The team is given secured access to a system to analyse, execute
instructions to find the flag. The games assume players to have
knowledge in computer engineering such as files, networking, various
tools of system administration.

**Team size:** 1-3

**Time Duration:** 3hrs

**Rules:**

-   Your team will be required to solve network security related
    problems.

-   The winner will be declared on the basis of number of questions
    solved. If number of questions solved is same, the winner will be
    the team who solves the problems in least amount of time.

-   Team will have no access to cell phones.

-   Taking help of any kind will result in immediate disqualification.

**NITD PROGRAMMING LEAGUE**

"Truth can only be found in one place: the code."

Robert C. Martin minced no words while he made that statement. For those
who think themselves as the problem solvers and all the code freaks out
there, Sentience'19 is here with a platform for you to prove your
mettle. This could be the event that gives you that confidence to code
which could change your life forever.

Problem Statement: This is a competitive programming event. There will
be a set of questions, and participants will be required to write
programs to solve them (in C, C++ or Java), which will be judged by an
online judge. The team which solves the maximum number of questions in
least time will be declared as the winner.

**Team Size:** 1-3

**General Rules:**

-   Your team will be required to write programs to solve the given
    problems, which will then have to be submitted to an online judge.

-   Your programs can be written in any language.

-   There will be a runtime limit for each problem. Your solution should
    pass all the hidden test data within that time limit to receive the
    accepted verdict.

-   The winner will be declared on the basis of number of questions
    solved. If number of questions solved is same, the winner will be
    the team who solves the problems in least amount of time.

-   There will be a time penalty for each wrong submission to the online
    judge, but not for compilation error.

-   Team will have no access to cell phones.

-   Taking help of any kind will result in immediate disqualification.

# CLASH OF CODES

Outwit, outplay, outlast

Get ready for your chance to glory, where you would have to unleash your
coding skills but, you would win only if you outlast your competitors.
It's an opportunity to boast your coding skills, but you can't entirely
rely on them. May the odds always be in your favour.

**General Rules:**

-   Single person entry is allowed.

-   Participants will be asked to submit one player code for a given
    game.

-   Before 7 days of the starting of fest one online portal will be
    opened where participants will improve their algorithm by playing
    with other's code.

-   On the day of event, there will be offline knock out matches.

-   The one who will win the final knock-out match will be the winner.

-   Rest will be notified on online portal.

# Code Golf

Code Golf is a competitive coding challenge for all the geeks out there,
but what makes it different is, you have to code short to fetch more
marks. Lesser you code, better you score. Though what\'s priceless is
solving interesting problems and the thrill of competition. To deal with
it, you require a level patience and skill that escapes ordinary
programmers. Are you ready?

**Team size:** 1-2

**Rules:**

-   Your team will be required to write programs to solve the given
    problems, which will then have to be submitted to an online judge.

-   Shorter the code, Higher will be the score.

-   Your programs can be written in any language.

-   There will be a runtime limit for each problem. Your solution should
    pass all the hidden test data within that time limit to receive the
    accepted verdict.

-   The winner will be declared on the basis of total score.

-   There will be a time penalty for each wrong submission to the online
    judge, but not for compilation error.

-   Team will have no access to cell phones.

-   Taking help of any kind will result in immediate disqualification.

# REVERSE CODING

Think you know everything about programming? Well there are many ways to
go, let's see which one you pick. This event looks for the real star
that stands up to the ability of creativity and logic. So, be ready to
storm out not just by switching systems but switching your brains into
the all new arena.

**Problem Statement:** The difference between general competitive
programming competition and reverse coding is that you will not be given
the exact question statement but you will be provided with some set of
sample inputs and outputs which will be sufficient enough to guess the
problem and then you have to submit a code for your guessed problem.

**Team size:** 1-3

**Rules:**

-   Your team will be required to guess the problem with help of given
    input and output set and write program to solve the problems, which
    will then have to be submitted to an online judge.

-   Your programs can be written in one of either C, C++ or Java
    language.

-   There will be a runtime limit for each problem. Your solution should
    pass all the hidden test data within that time limit to receive the
    accepted verdict.

-   The winner will be declared on the basis of number of questions
    solved. If number of questions solved is same, the winner will be
    the team who solves the problems in least amount of time.

-   There will be a time penalty for each wrong submission to the online
    judge, but not for compilation error.

-   Team will have no access to cell phones.

-   Taking help of any kind will result in immediate disqualification.
